Add ADR on where we read risk data from (#96)
ministryofjustice/hmpps-manage-supervisions: doc/adr/0009-read-risks-data-from-offender-assessment-api.md

# 9. Read Risks data from Offender Assessment API

Date: 2021-05-25

## Status

Accepted

## Context

Our service needs to display risks to our users, using a number of standard risk flags and scores.

These are:
 - Risk indicators
   - ROSH (Risk of Serious Harm)
  - SARA
 - Predictors
  - OGR
  - RSR
  - OSP
 - Registrations
  - MAPPA

> The risk indicators and predictors are currently mastered by OASys, but then mirrored into NDelius. Registration information (i.e. which registers an offender might be on) is mastered by in NDelius.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The risk indicators and predictors are currently mastered by OASys, but then mirrored into NDelius. Registration information (i.e. which registers an offender might be on) is mastered by NDelius.
```

> A new [*Offender Assessment API*](https://offender-dev.aks-dev-1.studio-hosting.service.justice.gov.uk/swagger-ui/) has been created which allows risk indicator and predictor data to be read directly from OASys or a future replacement service. This service is live and available in all environments.

Reviewer: Could you please also link the GitHub page here, as there's auth in front of the Swagger docs and you need VPN.

Confusingly, another API named the *Assessments API* also exists, which allows clients to _perform_ assessments rather than read existing data. This service is not yet live, and is currently only intended to be used by the *Assess Risks & Needs* frontend.

## Decision

We will read and display risks data from the *Offender Assessment API*, which shows the latest data from OASys or equivalent.

> We can read ROSH and SARA scores from the [getRisksForOasysOffenderId endpoint](https://offender-dev.aks-dev-1.studio-hosting.service.justice.gov.uk/swagger-ui/#/Offender%20SARA%2C%20ROSH%20risk%20indicators/getRisksForOasysOffenderIdUsingGET), and predictors from the [etPredictorScoresForOasysOffenderId endpoint](https://offender-dev.aks-dev-1.studio-hosting.service.justice.gov.uk/swagger-ui/#/Offender%20OGP%2C%20OGRs%2C%20OVP%20Predictors/getPredictorScoresForOasysOffenderIdUsingGET).

Reviewer 2: How to we translate a CRN into an Oasys Offender ID?

Author: it supports CRN I think, though I'll double check that.

Author: Yep, it does: https://github.com/ministryofjustice/offender-assessments-api-kotlin/blob/67ea2a7a31e92ccb9de23d4251f7a2b1245467d4/src/main/kotlin/uk/gov/justice/digital/oasys/api/OffenderIdentifier.kt

If we need to show changes, we can use the [getAssessmentsForOffender endpoint](https://offender-dev.aks-dev-1.studio-hosting.service.justice.gov.uk/swagger-ui/#/Assessments/getAssessmentsForOffenderUsingGET) to list assessments, then the [getRisksForOasysOffenderIdAndAssessmentId endpoint](https://offender-dev.aks-dev-1.studio-hosting.service.justice.gov.uk/swagger-ui/#/Offender%20SARA%2C%20ROSH%20risk%20indicators/getRisksForOasysOffenderIdAndAssessmentIdUsingGET) to get previous risk values to show a change. In future it may be possible to subscribe to a change event instead, but that isn't currently available.

> Data on registrations is held in NDelius, so we should read it from the [getOffenderRegistrationsByCrn endpoint](https://community-api-public.test.probation.service.justice.gov.uk/swagger-ui/index.html#/Risks%20and%20Registrations/getOffenderRegistrationsByCrnUsingGET) in the community API.

Reviewer 3: we certainly could do this, but I would suggest that we look into what abstractions we can provide over this messy raw data.

Author: I'll add a note to that effect, we can cover the detail in a subsequent ADR.

## Consequences

The Assess Risks & Needs team are very receptive to requests for changes to the API; we are one of the first users, so they want to provide us with what we need and will iterate their product to do so.

> As some data is currently held in both OASys and NDelius, there is the potential for conflicting data. We consider this to be a data quality problem. Fixing it is outside the scope of our team, but if it becomes an issue we will make sure to flag it to the appropriate data owners.

Reviewer: I think we should be a bit stronger here:

```suggestion
As some data is currently held in both OASys and NDelius (with the NDelius data being maintained manually), there will be cases of conflicting data. We consider this to be a data quality problem which we will address through service design.
```

Also, because we'll be surfacing the same bits data from both systems, our service will need an approach to clearly handle discrepancies...
